# Tart apple pie

## Equipment
* Large mixing bowl.
* Medium mixing bowl.
* Paring knife.
* Peeler.
* Whisk.
* Nine-inch pie dish.
* Rolling pin.
* Either strips of aluminum foil, 1" wide, sufficient to cover the edge of the crust, or a crust shield.
* Cooling rack.

## Ingredients
### Filling—I
* 58 g (1/4 cup) cup sugar.
* 18 g (2 tbsp.) flour.
* 1/2 tsp. salt.

### Filling—II
* 5 large Granny Smith apples.
  (In one typical case, my apples weighed 1422 grams whole and 1053 grams after I peeled, cored, and sliced them.)

### Crust
* 88 g (6 tbsp.) cold water.
* 123 g (10 tbsp.) olive oil.
* 1.25 tsp. salt.
* 346 g (2 cups, 7.5 tbsp.) flour.
* Wax paper.

## Procedure
1. Preheat the oven to 425 °F.
2. In the larger mixing bowl, mix the filling Group I ingredients.
3. Peel, core, and slice the apples, adding them to the bowl.
   Stir the filling together.
4. In the smaller mixing bowl, beat the water, oil, and salt until they are milky.
   Add the flour and stir it until it is mixed and no more.
   Divide the dough into two equal portions.
5. Roll out one portion of the dough between two sheets of wax paper until it's at least an inch larger than the pie dish.
   Loosen the paper from the top, replace it, turn over the crust and paper, and loosen and replace the other sheet.
   Remove the top sheet, fold the crust into quarters, and gently transfer it to the pie dish.
6. Add the pie filling, then repeat as above with the other portion of dough to make the top crust, adding it on top of the pie.
   Crimp the edges of the bottom and top crusts together, folding the crimped edge down.
7. Inscribe an appropriate pattern onto the top crust with the knife.
8. Cover the edges of the crust with foil or a crust shield.
9. Bake the pie at 425 °F for 25 minutes until it's a light golden.
   (I like the apples to be crispy.)
10. Transfer the pie (in its dish) to a rack and allow it to cool.
